I'm recording this video in a part of
the world where marijuana is legal and
if there's any moral that want to put to
this story well we have a saying in
English it ain't over till it's over
you ain't sober until you're sober if
you say you quit drugs I've seen so many
people claim this I've seen Tana mojo
say a million times that she quit drugs
she didn't do drugs
except of course marijuana and alcohol
well look at her life it may be that all
she uses is marijuana alcohol nicotine
and caffeine that may be she may be
telling the truth from her perspective
she doesn't use drugs but she's not
sober and a lot of us in the vegan
demi-monde have seen the increasingly
gruesome spectacle of the decline and
self-destruction of Charles Marlow
Charles Marlow used to be my friend a
long long time ago and he told me things
personally that he'd never stated on
YouTube we're never sated up to that
point he told me things about his
personal life he told me things about
his hopes and dreams and it was directly
because of the influence of my channel
because of one particular video on my
channel that he got his act together and
made an application to go back to school
to go to college he had a lot of
advantages in doing that too his father
was a college professor so he really had
someone who could help him with the
paperwork
he got himself back into college he got
himself an internship in radio and I
remember saying to him at the time said
well if this is what you want to do if
you want to go into broadcasting at
least this is one of the fields where
people might be willing to overlook the
fact that you used to be a heroin addict
you used to be a cocaine addict and so
on because so many people in the
entertainment of broadcasting world have
some kind of history with our drugs that
he might be able to get ahead and I
don't know years later at least a year
later he dropped out of that program he
dropped out of college he'd got himself
an apartment in Los Angeles but briefly
because fame here on YouTube is fleeting
briefly he had an income of about $3,000
a month he had a talent agent he had
some people working for him he had an
income from both live-streaming and and
YouTube and he felt he was on top of the
world and during that time he swore even
if he was lying he swore that he was
clean he swore that he wasn't using
drugs and what did he mean by that
he meant that he was using nicotine
caffeine marijuana alcohol and some
performance-enhancing drugs
testosterone at one point
anavar which is a steroid maybe some
other bodybuilding drugs too and you
know it was obvious to everyone that he
was high but I don't think any of us are
in a position to say that he couldn't be
that high on the combination of drugs he
was openly admitting he was taking I
mean even now oh oh right and I'm
forgetting at various times he was on
different drugs legal drugs prescription
drugs to help him cope with the legacy
of his addiction so currently he states
that he's on suboxone and those drugs
she was on suboxone he was on wellbutrin
you're not sober unless you're 100%
sober
and it's a great evil in our society
that marijuana is being normalized in
this way it's true many of the problems
with marijuana are even worse with
alcohol depends how you make that
comparison depends on your personal set
of values and priorities in life that
here is not my point you can see there
are people struggling with sobriety
including Cheeta including ten Amazo
including many people you probably know
in your own life and the excuse that
being high on marijuana that using
marijuana is somehow not using drugs
that is somehow not a real drug whether
it's illegal or illegal whether it's
legal or illegal in your jurisdiction
this is an excuse that in a subtle and
pervasive way you know does destroy
people's lives and you know there's
something you can do
you may feel powerless watching this
video you may feel powerless if you go
now
and click on vegan cheetahs recent
videos showing ya Matt I hope it's rock
bottom I don't know how much lower you
can go showing the extent to which his
life has now been destroyed once again
or whatever you want to say you may feel
hopeless and you may feel powerless but
I want to tell you something you can do
you you can live sober and you can be
loud about it
you can really broadcast it you can
really talk about what it means to live
clean and sober the best comparison I
can think of is the role of athletes
those few athletes even if there are
minority who don't use steroids who
don't use performance-enhancing drugs
where it's really important for them to
talk about what it is to live in the
discipline of that sport what they can
and can't accomplish even if they're
contrasting maybe times times their life
when they did use steroids and when they
did
if the people who are clean and sober
remain silent then we find ourselves
slipping further and further into a
culture that celebrates being in a
constant state of heedlessness in a
constant state of self-indulgence in a
constant state of drug addled misery
that people mistake for happiness
yeah I have nothing else to say guys you
know 2500 years ago Socrates said the
unexamined life is not worth living and
you know people would rather feel
nothing than feel unhappy and that's why
it seems they're so easily addicted to
drugs that fundamentally are painkillers
drugs that fundamentally provide nothing
more positive in your life than a kind
of numbness then a kind of distraction
from dealing with who you really are